hi I'm vegan and I have experience
living and working in Cambodia Laos Hong
Kong Taiwan Thailand China Thailand and
a few other places I get questions from
time to time from other vegetarians and
vegans asking what it's like to live in
that part of the world some of them are
asking because they're interested in
what is it like to be vegan in a
third-world tropical context some of
them are asking more in terms of the
cultural differences between countries
maybe than rest in the Buddhist angle
and some are asking because they're
interested in terms of the the infamous
brutality of a lot of these cultures in
terms of how they treat animals I guess
that's maybe an impression that's
largely based on images that appear on
television in the internet from you know
the fur industry in China or um you know
the fact that in Southeast Asia people
eat dogs in addition to pigs and pythons
and everything else so I'm gonna try to
make a quick video that gives one answer
for what's obviously a pretty diverse
part of the world's map I really try not
to say anything that other people have
already said on the internet because I
don't see the point of it for me
personally honestly the single biggest
difference between being in a decadent
Western society and fingered in
Southeast Asia was the presence of
parasites parasitic infections bacterial
infections and so on being carried in
meat you know arguments about food
safety seem very abstract when you're in
a western country where maybe you're
only pointing to some vague statistics
but the number of sick days per year
that meat eaters take vs. vegetarians or
vegans when you're living in a context
where people really get hospitalized
with sort of terrifying bacteria and
parasites and what-have-you many of
which you know stick around with you for
life for a very long-term implication
you ask yourself how can people
knowingly subject themselves to this and
for no for no reward they don't get
anything out of it but they can and the
people around you will will answer that
question for you they'll always be
forthcoming with what their what their
rationale is for why they disregard the
harm they're doing to their own health
and the harm they're doing to the
animals and to the environment around
them so if you're a vegan for ethical
and ecological reasons you'll suddenly
find yourself in Southeast Asia pleading
with people people who your co-workers
your friends what have you
you'll find yourself trying to reason
with people in a completely amoral way
to get stop eating meat you know the
ugliness and brutality of the
meatpacking industry and the filth of
what it is to have a diet that's based
on eating rotting corpses that's
fundamentally the same all over the
world but it's true that in a tropical
third-world context it's harder for
people to kid themselves about it you
don't have the veneer of um you know
plastic and styrofoam and most of the
time you don't have you know you just
don't have walls built up that'll block
your view from seeing what you're really
eating where it comes from and how it
died I guess that brings me to point to
you know I personally when I was living
and working in Southeast Asia
I've seen all kinds of animals
slaughtered in front of my eyes not just
pigs and cows but wild animals
endangered animals you know in the
middle of a biological conservation area
I saw them killing Pangolin to feed the
tourists
when you're in a part of the world that
has no electricity or very little access
to electricity then one of the reasons
why people are so cruel to animals is
that they tend to try to keep them alive
right up until the time when they're
gonna be eaten so you know you'll see
while the animals being kind of bound
and gagged and dragged along and
terrible conditions so that there they
are finally killed as close to the
customer or as close to the plate as
possible you know in general if you
really see expose x' of how for example
the fur industry works in Russia
or Sweden it is every bit as brutal as
it is in China or Southeast Asia I think
that Western countries simply have a
much greater ability to shield
themselves from public view and again to
to package these these things as
products in a way that looks antiseptic
and that you know the package doesn't in
any way resemble the process that
produced it living in that context you
also become familiar with how powerful
the human imagination is in deceiving
itself people who do not want to see
what's right in front of their eyes they
won't see it and the same way that
people can convince themselves that you
know eating this stuff is good for their
health when it isn't I mean I guess you
know point three on my list here if I'm
counting would be that the ecological
impacts are also very visible if you
have your eyes open you're willing to
see it I remember you know living and
working in a small village where there
was one river one small trickle of a
river where everybody washed their
clothes and where the children went to
play and where sometimes you know people
went to bathe and that same river you
know it had become overrun with cows
cattle were provided by European
charities as ways of trying to alleviate
poverty in my biased opinion it only
makes
poverty worse and one of the ways it
makes it worse is that those cows are
then crowding around that River there
pooing into that river they they
defecate I mean we use this word in
english runoff runoff runoff means
sewage without a sewer and that's
exactly what happens everything that
comes out of the cow including when they
slaughter the cows and then you have of
course the blood and guts would have you
pouring into that same small River so
you know the scarcity of those resources
and the ecologic Olympics and the human
impacts it's very real some of it is
hard to measure some of it's easy to
measure but boy if you've got your eyes
open you're willing to see it it's right
there for you to see so I guess the the
fourth and final point on my informal
list here to keep things very brief
we've people who ask about the cultural
angle all the countries have mentioned
they are third-world tropical countries
but there are also countries that have
buddhist heritage so it's very different
to be vegetarian in cambodia than it
would be to be vegetarian in indonesia
indonesia as a majority Muslim country
it also has a Buddhist history but it's
Buddhist history was largely
exterminated so very different from
being a you know vegetarian and the
Catholic countries of South America or
what have you
um I think some tourists show up
expecting these Buddhist cultures to be
vegan paradise if you look at the
statistics and there are real statistics
the hard statistics for how many tons of
cattle gets slaughtered every year how
many tons of pork produced and so on
if you're willing to look at those
statistics you will see that there is
very little reality behind that hype on
the one hand a country like Taiwan has a
very vocal organized vegan minority on
the other hand they have a voracious
meat-eating majority and the amount of
meat that gets imported and locally
produced and consumed has only increased
and increased same is true I mean for
all the other Buddhist countries in
terms of your daily life in dealing with
the culture that echo of Buddhism I
would say mostly as the potential
increase conflict when you're in a
country that has no kind of no
connection to vegetarianism or veganism
in its history if they just regard this
as a foreign idea or a new idea then you
don't have the same tension the same
potential for conflict that comes out of
the contrast between Buddhism's
historical ideals and the rather
depressing reality of what the UM the
modern culture is like you'll often not
be talking to people many many times
heard oh yeah yeah you know I I had a
grandfather who was vegetarian he was
much more Buddhist now as oh yeah my
grandmother more often what you'll
encounter are people who have a vague
cultural awareness that vegetarianism
and non-violence
were ideals that Buddhism was supposed
to aspire to you know in the same way of
course Buddhist cultures and historical
reality all had slavery all had torture
so meaning of not what's in these in
these contacts is worth thinking about
carefully many foreigners see as a
conflict avoiding sight of East Asian
culture really ends up escalating
conflict because many of the people in
the service industry will feel that they
can lie to you in the same way that in
Western culture a parent might lie to a
child
saying anything that's necessary just to
get you to sit down just to get you to
stay in your seat just to get you to get
on the train
whether or not it's the right train just
to you know go through the motions of
serving the meal getting you in and out
of the store whatever the case might be
and that's really a different attitude
from trying to rip you off it's a
different attitude from lying to you in
a malicious sense but I mean you'll get
to encounter again and again the sense
of real surprise that it's a problem
when the waiter brings you something
that they promised you would be
vegetarian and that actually has pieces
of meat in it living in this kind of
context you do have to ask yourself what
attitude you're going to take how are
you going to respond when someone you
care about is hospitalized because
they're eating meat
what kind of attitude are you gonna take
when for the tenth time the waiter
brings you something that's not really
vegetarian I remember I worked in one
village where every day just one wooden
cart would show up at the morning market
with one slaughtered Pig you'd see the
animals being killed but you'd also just
see the filth of bloody corpse covered
with flies that comes bouncing down the
road in a wooden cart you know getting
some dirt and dust on it getting rained
on if it was raining and so on and you
know the most lurid spectacle of all is
not the killing of the pig and it's not
the corpse in the cart
the most terrible thing to behold are
the excuses that people are making
themselves we like to say in English
that beauty is in the eye of the
beholder
we don't say as often that ugliness is
in the eye of the beholder also human
beings have a tremendous capacity to not
see what's right in front of their faces
when it suits their purpose they have
the capacity to
or diseases even when it's really
harming people around them even when
it's really resulting in deaths people
that they know and you know they have
that capacity to ignore the suffering of
animals literally in their own backyard
that human capacity for self-deception
is really the most brutalizing spectacle
of all